Please answer the below core-java Questions:

What is programing language?
Ans :Programming language is the way to  communicate with computers.

What jdk contains or composed of and define each components?
Ans: JDK contains JRE,JVM, debugger, compiler and other developing tools

What is IDE?
Ans:IDE stands for interactive Development Environment which is software application that combines all of the features and tools needed by software developer

What are the IDEs available in the market to support java?
Ans:IntelliJ, Eclipse, NetBeans, BlueJ, DrJava, Android Studio

Explain the entire java life cycle.
Ans:Source code > compile > Byte Code > JVM > Object Code

what is class?
Ans: Class is blueprint of creating object

What is object?
Ans:Object is an instance of class

What is the entry point of an application?
Ans:main method is an entry point of any java application.

Why main is static?
Ans: for being static main method does not need to create any new object to call it any time

Which class is the superclass of all classes?
Ans: Object class

What is difference between path and classpath variables?
Ans: Path locates the java tools; Classpath locates the class libraries

What is the difference between an Interface and Abstract class?
Ans:An Interface has only abstract methods and Abstract class has at least one abstract method with other regular method.

Can you make an Object from an Interface and Abstract class ? if not how do you use it ?
Ans:No, to use method,  class needs to implements Interfaces and extend Abstract class.

what is Access Specifier?
Ans: Access specifier is key words that define the limit of accessibility of variables and methods.

What is OOP ? Define each feature of java OOP.
Ans:OOP is an object oriented programming concepts. OOP contains the idea of Inheritances, Encapsulation, Polymorphism, Abstraction..

What is Java Package and which package is imported by default?
Ans: A Java Package is collection of same type of  classes and interfaces. By default java import java.lang package.

What is API? Name list of API that you have used so far.
Ans: API stands for application programmable interfaces which work as a messenger to connect one application to other.API helps to access data,
hide complexity, extend functionality and security.

Does java support multiple inheritance, explain why or why not?
Ans: Yes Java support multiple inheritance through only Implementing multiple interfaces.

What is method overloading and when it happens?
Ans: when two or more methods has same name with different parameters it calls method overloading.

Explain exceptions in java and how to handle it.
Ans:Exception is an event that disrupt the normal flow of the program. Java handle the exception with try and catch block,
    the statement might throw exception need to put in the try block and in catch block parameter need to put exception name.

What is static keyword in java? How it has been used in variables and methods ?
Ans: Static keyword apply the restriction  and make variable , method common to all and reduce the memory waste by not creating new object.
    Static keyword make variable as class variable and make method as a class method.

What is final and how it has been used variables and methods?
Ans: Final is key word that apply the restriction on variable and method by not letting it be overridden.

What is final, finally and finalize?
Ans: Final is a keyword to apply restriction on class, method and variable, final class can not be inherited, final variable and method can not ber over ridden.
    Finally is a block of exception handling process, finally block will be always executed whether the exception is handled or not.
    Finalize is a method, this method is use to perform clean-up process just before the garbage collection.

What is a constructor ?
Ans: A constructor is special type of method that is used to initialize the object.

Can we have multiple constructors in a class?
Ans: Yes, we can have multiple constructor with different parameters in a class.

If we don't have a constructor declared, what is called during the object creation?
Ans: By the default constructor, as same name as class name.

What is "this" keyword in java ?
Ans: this keyword is used in side the constructor block for variable to identify the variable  as a class variable.

What is "super" keyword in java? How many possible way can you use?
Ans:super keyword indicate the first one if it is overridden.

What is JVM stand for ?
Ans: JVM stands for Java Virtual Machine.

Is JVM platform independent?
Ans:No, JVM is platform dependent.

What version of java are you using?
Ans:JDK 14

What is JAR stand for ?
Ans:Java ARchive.

What is the difference between JDK and JVM?
Ans: JDK stands for Java Development Kit which is complete tools for java application development.JDK contains JRE and JVM with other development tools.
    JVM stand for Java Virtual Machine which provide  virtual environment  to run java application. JVM interpret byte code to object.

What is the difference between JVM and JRE?
Ans: JRE stands for Java Run Environment which can run any java application/code.JRE is the implementation of JVM which is physically exist.JRE contains JVM and other set of libraries.

What is compile time and run time?
Ans: Compile time is the time when source code is converted into an executable code. Runtime is the time when executable code started running.

What is heap?
Ans: Heap is a memory space in JVM.
How java manage it's memory?
What is the difference between String, StringBuffer and StringBuilder?
What is Singleton class?
What is Serialization and Deserialization?
when to use transient variable in java?

Difference between while and do..while loop?
Ans:While loop starts with condition if condition match it will execute the statement inside the while loop.
    do..while loop: inside do block the statement will execute without any condition then it will check the  condition of the while and
    if the condition match it will execute the statement of while block.

What is Enum?
Ans: Enum is a special type of class that contains group constants variable.

What is Iterator?
Ans: Iterator is an interface which is use as an object to loop through collection like ArrayList and Hashset.

Which one will take more memory, an int or Integer?
Ans: Integer

Why is String Immutable in Java?
What is constructor chaining in Java?
The difference between Serial and Parallel Garbage Collector?
What is JIT stands for?
Explain Java Heap space and Garbage collection?
Can you guarantee the garbage collection process?
What is the difference between stack and heap in Java?
What is reflection in java and why is it useful?
what is multithreading in java?
What is the use of synchronization in Java?
What is Framework?
What are the testing Framework available in java?
Difference between jUnit and testNG?
What are the dependencies for this project?
what is dependency injection in java?
What is static binding and dynamic binding?